.TH libdns 3 "2nd September 2003" "libdns 0.1-alpha" "Application Programmer\'s Manual"
.SH \fBNAME\fP
libdns - DNS query construction, sending and reply parsing library
\
.SH \fBIMPORTANT\fP
This manpage documents the first implementation of \fBlibdns\fP in it's
alpha state. As such, the data structures and interfaces described within
are subject to change. However this manpage will be kept current for each
release of the source.
\
.SH \fBSYNOPSIS\fP
#include <libdns/dns.h>

Link with -ldns.
\
.SH \fBDESCRIPTION\fP
\
\fBLibdns\fP provides a simple interface to creating DNS queries
and parsing the results. DNS replies are automatically parsed into lists
of resource records and any standard string elements are reconstructed,
taking into account the DNS string compression scheme. This greatly
simplifies the creation of DNS applications by removing all the
fiddly protocol work from the programmer's responsibilies. Note that
currently only UDP is supported as a transmission protocol and as such,
DNS zone transfers are not implemented. Any attempt to request a zone
transfer will result in an error.

\fBLibdns\fP uses the \fBdnsq_t\fP structure to hide the underlying format
of DNS packets. Questions are added to a \fBdnsq_t\fP structure and then
sent off to a server. Replies are parsed into lists of \fBdns_rr\fP structures
that represent DNS resource record (RR) structures.
\
.SH \fBFUNCTION PROTOTYPES\fP
.SS \fBGeneral Library Functions\fP
\fBdnsq_t *\fPdns_new_query(\fBuint16_t\fP id, \fBint\fP opcode, \fBint\fP recursive)

\fBvoid\fP dns_free_query(\fBdnsq_t *\fP q)

\fBint\fP dns_add_question(\fBdnsq_t *\fP q, \fBchar *\fPhost, \fBuint16_t\fP type,
				  \fBuint16_t\fP class)

\fBint\fP dns_send_query(\fBdnsq_t *\fP q, \fBint\fP s, \fBstruct sockaddr_in *\fP addr)

\fBuint16_t\fP dns_get_lib_version()

\fBchar *\fP dns_get_lib_version_str()

\fB#define\fP LIBDNS_VERSION    "0.1-alpha"

\fB#define\fP LIBDNS_MAJOR      0

\fB#define\fP LIBDNS_MINOR	1
\
.SS \fBString Utility Functions\fP
\fBchar *\fP dns_convert_name(\fBchar *\fP name, \fBint *\fP error)

\fBchar *\fP dns_type_to_str(\fBuint16_t\fP type)

\fBchar *\fP dns_class_to_str(\fBuint16_t\fP class)

\fBchar *\fP dns_strerror(\fBdnsq_t *\fP q, \fBint\fP code)

\fBchar *\fP dns_build_reply_string(\fBchar *\fP data, \fBint\fP len, \fBchar *\fP start,
				          \fBint *\fP dist)